Fooder's Brownies (I usually 1/2 the recipe to fit in a 9x12" baking pan).

1 Pound Unsalted Butter
1 Pound Semi Sweet Chocolate Chips
12 ounces Semi Sweet Chocolate Chips
6 ounces bitter chcoclate
6 extra large eggs
4 tbs instant espresso powder
2 tbs vanilla extract
2-1/4 cups sugar
1-1/4 cups flour
1 tbs. baking powder
1 tsp salt

Preheat oven to 350. Melt butter, 1 pound chocolate chips, and bitter 
chocolate over simmering water until melted. Allow to cool.

Mis together eggs, coffee, valilla and sugar with electric mixer until 
mixed. Add melted chocolate mixture and stir to mix. Cool to room 
temperature. Add 1 cup of the flour, baking powder and salt. Toss 
remaining chocolate chips (12 ounces) in 1/4 cup of flour, add to mixture.

Bake in a 9x12" pan for 20 minutes. Rattle pan to loosen sides. Then bake 
another 15 minutes until top is hardened. If you do not half the recipe, 
then you may need to bake 10 more minutes to accomodate the thicker 
brownies.

Cool completely before cutting.

These brownies are very rich and very gooey.

ENJOY!

-------------------------------------------------

Mary Encinger
from The New York Times Magazine, 11/15/98

2 C sugar
1 C unsweetened cocoa powder
1 C unsalted butter, melted
4 large eggs
1= C flour
2 tsp vanilla extract
= C chopped walnuts (optional)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Grease and flour a 9x13 baking pan. In a 
large bowl, combine the sugar, cocoa powder, and butter and stir. Add the 
eggs, one at a time, stirring only until blended. Add flour, vanilla, 
walnuts. Stir until blended but do not overmix. Transfer mixture into the 
pan and shake to even out. Bake in top half of the oven for 20 to 25 
minutes until center is firm to the touch. Don't overbake!

Yield: 16 brownies 

--------------------------------------

Martha Stewart's "The Ultimate Brownies"

1 cup unsalted butter at room temp plus more for pan
1 2/3 sifted all purpose flour plus more for pan
8 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
8 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 1/4 sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 ounces semisweet chocolate ,cut into chunks ( 1 1/4 cups)

Heat oven to 425 degrees. Butter a 9 x 13 glass baking dish and line with
parchment paper. Butter and flour then set aside.

Place unsweetened chocolate and butter in a pot of a double boiler and melt
over barely simmering water, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and set
aside.

In the bowl of an electric mixer, fitted with the whisk attachment, combine
eggs, vanilla and sugar. Beat on high for 10 minutes then reduce to low
speed and add chocolate, blending to combine.Add salt to flour and add in
gradually to combine. Fold in the chocolate chunks.

Pour into the baking dish and bake about 25 - 30 minutes.. until they start
pulling away from the sides. Cool in dish on wire rack then cut into 24
squares.

---------------------------------------------

Here is the perfect brownie recipe, according to me (and my sister-in-law)

Note: If you can smell the brownies baking--it's time to take them out of 
the oven! That smell tells you the delicate cocoa flavor is evaporating 
into the air and out of the brownies...

Perfect Brownies

1/2 cup butter (one stick)
3/4 cup flour
1/4 teasp salt
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
6 T cocoa
2 T oil
2 t vanilla

Preheat oven to 350. Grease or line an 8 inch square backing dish with 
parchment paper. Beat sugar and butter until creamy then gradually add the 
eggs, beating until the mixture is smooth and fluffly. Add the cocoa, 
vanilla and oil. Then add the flour (with salt mixed in) in 2 or 3 parts, 
mixing well after each addition. Pour batter into pan and bake for about 
20 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes before slicing. Makes 16 small brownies or 
12 big ones.

Enjoy!

-----------------------------------

Alison's Brownies

1 C sugar
1/2 C flour
2 eggs, beaten
1 stick unsalted butter
3 oz. unsweetened chocolate
1 tsp vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease an 8. x 8. baking pan. Mix dry 
ingredients together. Stir in eggs just until blended. Melt chocolate with 
butter in double boiler or microwave and add to other ingredients along 
with vanilla. Stir to blend but don.t overmix. Reduce oven to 325 degrees 
and bake for 5 minutes. Return oven to 350 and bake for 20 minutes til 
done. Watch carefully and don.t overbake!

You can add some chopped nuts or 1/3 C chocolate chips to the batter if 
you like. Also good: add 2 tsp. espresso powder to the melted chocolate 
and blend well.

-------------------------------------

Do you like them cakey or fudgey? < lainielou > 12/15 18:28:49

I like them fudgey. These are the best ones IMO - I'm usually not a big 
fan of Nick Malgieri but this is one of my favorite recipes. It's the 
classic example of what you put in, you get out . . use the best butter 
and chocolate you can get ahold of. I like these with toasted pecans.

SUPERNATURAL BROWNIES

Adapted from Chocolate: From Simple Cookies to Extravagant Showstoppers

Time to make: 1 hour, plus overnight resting (so they say . .. never happens)

16 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus additional for buttering pan
8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, cut into quarter-inch pieces
4 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 cups (1/2 pound) walnut or pecan pieces (optional)

Set a rack at the middle level of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees. 
Butter a 13-by-9-by-2-inch pan, line it with parchment paper or foil and 
butter the parchment or foil.

Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil and turn off heat. In a large, 
heatproof bowl, combine butter and chocolate and set over pan of water. (A 
double-boiler may also be used.) Stir occasionally until melted.

In a large bowl, whisk eggs until thick and lemon-colored, then whisk in 
salt, sugars and vanilla. Stir in chocolate and butter mixture, then fold 
in flour. If desired, fold in nuts.

Pour batter into prepared pan and spread evenly. Bake for about 45 
minutes, until top has formed a shiny crust and batter is moderately firm. 
Cool in pan on a rack. Wrap pan in plastic wrap and let rest overnight at 
room temperature or refrigerated.

To cut brownies, bring to room temperature, unmold onto a cookie sheet, 
remove paper and place a second cookie sheet on top. Turn brownies right 
side up and trim edges. Cut brownies into 2-inch squares.

Yield: 24 brownies. (hah! More like 10 in my house!)


 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=11003371

----------------------------------------

embrace google < avidreader > 02/28 12:27:04

I have made these and they are damn good, I found the recipe through 
google. But then after checking my recipe files, it was there as well. I 
double checked the amounts and it looks the same as the one I have from 
the site. Here you go!

Outrageous Brownies The Barefoot Contessa
Makes 20 Large Brownies

1 pound unsalted butter
1 pound plus 12 ounces semisweet chocolate chips
6 ounces bitter chocolate
6 extra-large eggs
3 tablespoons instant coffee granules
2 tablespoons pure vanilla extract
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups chopped walnuts

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

Butter and flour a 12 x 18 x 1-inch baking sheet. Melt together the 
butter, 1 pound of the chocolate chips, and the bitter chocolate in a 
medium bowl over simmering water. Allow to cool slightly. In a large bowl, 
stir (do not beat) together the eggs, coffee granules, vanilla, and sugar. 
Stir the warm chocolate mixture into the egg mixture and allow to cool to 
room temperature. In a medium bowl, sift together 1 cup of flour, the 
baking powder, and salt. Add to the cooled chocolate mixture. Toss the 
walnuts and 12 ounces of chocolate chips in a medium bowl with 1/4 cup 
flour, then add them to the chocolate batter. Pour onto the baking sheet. 
Bake for 20 minutes, then rap the baking sheet against the oven self to 
force the air to escape from between the pan and the brownie dough. Bake 
for about 15 minutes, until a toothpick comes out clean. Do not overbake! 
Allow to cool thoroughly, refrigerate, and cut into 20 large squares.

Notes: Flouring the chips and walnuts keeps them for sinking to the 
bottom. It is very important to allow the batter to cool well before 
adding the chocolate chips, or the chips will melt and ruin the brownies. 
This recipe can be baked up to a week in advance, wrapped in plastic, and 
refrigerated.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=12822881

-------------------------------------

OK, but you have to realize it is in the < answer-gal > 02/15 18:40:06

context of several different recipes for brownies and a long discussion 
about the differences between them and the methods that work. The one I 
made was Classic unsweetened chocolate Brownies--set out the ingredients 
except for the eggs ahead of time so that you can mix rapidly. Don't take 
any phone calls while making this one; the mix of temperatures of 
ingredients is important to making it so good.

4 ounces unsweetened chocolate
1 stick unsalted butter
1-1/4 cups sugar
1 teas. pure vanilla extract
1/4 teas. salt
2 cold large eggs
1/2 cup all purpose flour
2/3 cup walnut or pecan pieces
an 8 inch square baking pan, parchment paper

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Line the bottom and sides of the baking pan 
with parchment paper or foil, leaving an overhang on two opposite sides.

Place the chocolate and butter in a stainless steel bowl set in a wide 
skillet of barely simmering water. Stir frequently until the chocolate is 
melted and the mixture is smooth and hot enough that you want to remove 
your finger fairly quickly after dipping it in to test.

Remove bowl from skillet. Stir in sugar, vanilla and salt with a wooden 
spoon. Add the eggs one at a time, stirring until the first one is 
incorporated before adding the next. Stir in the flour and beat with a 
wooden spoon or spatula until batter is smooth, glossy, and beginning to 
come away from sides of the bowl, 1-2 minutes. Stir in nuts. Scrape the 
batter into the lined pan and smooth to even it.

Bake for 20 minutes, or until the brownies just begin to pull away from 
the sides of the pan. Meanwhile, prepare an ice bath. Fill a large 
roasting pan with ice cubes and about 3/4 inch of water.

When the brownies are ready, remove pan from oven and immediately set in 
the ice bath. Be careful not to get water on the brownies. Let the 
brownies cool for about an hour or so. Remove the pan from the ice bath, 
lift up the ends of parchment and transfer the brownies to a cutting 
board. Cut into 16 or 25 squares. The brownies can be stored for 2-3 days, 
and probably can be frozen for a bit longer.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=12456665

-----------------------------------

Robert's Favorite Fudgy Brownies

Our chocolatier, Robert Steinberg, enjoys making these dense brownies. 
(Adapted from "Barron's brownies": Maida Heatter's Great American 
Desserts. Knopf, 1985)

8 ounces Scharffen Berger 70% bittersweet chocolate, chopped
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 scant cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup all-purpose flour, sifted
1/2 to 1 cup walnut halves or pieces

Adjust a rack 1/3 up from bottom of the oven and preheat to 325 F. Butter 
or line with parchment paper an 8-inch square cake pan and set aside.

Heat the chocolate and butter in the top of a 2 1/2 to 3-quart double 
boiler or water bath. Stir occasionally until melted. If necessary, whisk 
to smooth. Remove from heat, stir in the salt, vanilla, and sugar. Add the 
eggs one at a time, stirring after each addition until incorporated.

Add the flour and stir briskly for about a minute until the mixture is 
smooth and shiny and comes away from the side of the pot. Stir in the 
nuts. Turn the mixture into the pan and smooth the top.

Bake for 35-40 minutes or until a toothpick inserted gently into the 
center comes out moist, but free of batter.

Remove from the oven. Cool on a rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Makes sixteen 2-inch brownies.

---------------------------------------

Karen's Working Parent No-Fuss Brownies

This is a retro 60's brownie, preferred (13-2) over 'adult brownies' in a 
taste test done by Marin Day Schools Hills Plaza Dolphin Class, ages 3-5.

4 ounces Scharffen Berger 99% unsweetened chocolate (2 scored sections)
2/3 cup butter
2 cups sugar
4 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 to 1 1/2 cups unsifted flour (less flour for moister brownie)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder

Preheat oven to 350 F. 

Melt chocolate and butter over low heat in a large heavy dutch oven. 
Remove from heat and mix in sugar with wooden spoon. Crack eggs into pot, 
add vanilla, and mix (dirtying a whisk is optional).

Gently lay the flour, salt, and baking powder on top of the gooey 
chocolate mixture. Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder with a fork 
without digging into the chocolate.

Grab your wooden spoon and stir everything together just until all flour 
is incorporated. Do not overbeat.

Pour into greased 9" x 12" (or 8" x 12") pan. Bake for 25 minutes (check 
at 20). Brownies are done when toothpick comes out pretty clean. Cool for 
10 minutes in pan, then cut into 2 " squares. Makes 24 brownies.

------------------------------------------

John's Favorite Brownies

6 ounces Scharffen Berger 70% Bittersweet chocolate
3/4 cup butter
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup flour
1 cup chopped nuts (optional)

Heat oven to 325 F.

Melt chocolate and butter in a double boiler over simmering water.

Stir sugar into chocolate until blended. Add eggs and vanilla. Stir in 
flour and nuts. Spread into a buttered 13" x 9" baking pan.

Bake 30-35 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes up with 
crumbs (not batter). Cool in pan.

-----------------------------------------

Cocoa Brownies
Recipe courtesy Alton Brown

	
Recipe Summary
Difficulty: Easy
Prep Time: 15 minutes
Cook Time: 1 hour
Yield: 16 brownies
User Rating: 5 Stars
	
	


Soft butter, for greasing the pan
Flour, for dusting the buttered pan
4 large eggs
1 cup sugar, sifted
1 cup brown sugar, sifted
8 ounces melted butter
11/4 cups cocoa, sifted
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup flour, sifted
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Butter and flour an 8-inch square pan.

In a mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat the eggs at medium speed 
until fluffy and light yellow. Add both sugars. Add remaining ingredients, 
and mix to combine.

Pour the batter into a greased and floured 8-inch square pan and bake for 
45 minutes. Check for doneness with the tried-and-true toothpick method: a 
toothpick inserted into the center of the pan should come out clean. When 
it's done, remove to a rack to cool. Resist the temptation to cut into it 
until it's mostly cool.


--------------------------

it worked!!! < poorteacher > 06/22 21:55:38

I got pretty much the flavor I was looking for here. Right consistency too. Though I think if I made them again I might add a few chocolate chips in for good measure. But here's the official chocolate-banana brownie recipe:
1/2 stick butter
3 tbsp. Dutch cocoa powder (using the better imported stuff makes a huge difference over Hershey's!)
1 egg
1 very ripe banana, mashed
1/4 tsp. salt (or a little more if you happened to use unsalted butter)
1 c. sugar
1 tsp. vanilla
1/2 c. flour

Stir all ingredients EXCEPT flour together, then fold in the flour last.

Bake in a small baking dish (I used an 8-inch cake pan) at 350 for about 
20-25 minutes.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=16258018

--------------------------

C&P from Epicurious-not best, but easiest < GatitaCaterina > 09/07 15:53:52

KATHARINE HEPBURN'S BROWNIES
The best recipe I have for brownies comes from a friend who got it from a magazine article about Katharine Hepburn. It is, apparently, her family's.

1. Melt together 1 stick butter and 2 squares unsweetened chocolate and 
take the saucepan off the heat.

2. Stir in 1 cup sugar, add 2 eggs and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, and beat the 
mixture well.

3. Stir in 1/4 cup all-purpose flour and 1/4 teaspoon salt. (In the 
original recipe, 1 cup chopped walnuts is added here as well.)

4. Bake the brownies in a buttered and floured 8-inch-square pan at 3250F 
for about 40 minutes.

You can cut these brownies into squares, once they have cooled, and eat them out of the pan, but it is so much nicer to pile them on a fancy plate, from which people are going to eat them with their hands anyway. If you want to smarten up your act you can put a square of brownie on a plate with a little blob of crime franche and a scattering of shaved chocolate.

"A Harried Cook's Guide to Some Fast Food" by Laurie Colwin
from Endless Feasts

April 2003
edited by Ruth Reichl
Modern Library


 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=18840108

-----------------------------

No more box! < BellaChelsea > 08/19 06:56:59

Once I started making this recipe from Nigella's How to be a Domestic Goddess, I stopped using the box. It is very very easy.

4 oz. best bittersweet chocolate
1 stick of butter
1 cup of sugar
1 egg
1 tsp. vanilla
1/4 cup of flower
pinch of salt

Oven to 350

Melt the butter and chocolate over low heat (no double boiler needed if 
you keep the heat low). Mix the egg and sugar together in a bowl. Add the 
vanilla and salt. Mix in chocolate. Mix in flour. The batter will look 
like fudge.

(at this point I like to add yummies, like walnuts, chunks of cream 
cheese, or coconut)

Bake for 20 minutes.

These are THE BEST! Eat plain or with ice cream.


 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=18178246



Nigella's Brownies?

1 2/3 cups soft unsalted butter
13 ounces best bittersweet chocolate
6 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups chopped walnuts

pan measuring approximately 13 x 9 2 1/2 inches

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line your brownie pan- I think it's worth lining 
the sides as well as the base with foil or parchment.

melt the butter and chocolate together in a large heavy-based pan. in a 
bowl or large wide-mouthed measuring cup, beat the eggs with vanilla and 
sugar. Measure the flour into another bowl and add the salt.

when the chocolate mixture has melted, let it cool a bit before beating in 
the eggs and sugar, and then the nuts and flour. beat to combine smoothly 
and then scrape our of the saucepan into the lined pan.

bake for about 25 minutes. when it's ready, the top should be dried to a 
paler brown speckle, but the middle still dark and dense and gooey. and 
even with such a big batch you do need to keep alert, keep checking.

makes a maximum of 48... the pieces do not need to be large. It is very 
very rich.


Variations: Dried cherries, peanuts, brazil nuts, hazelnuts, shredded coconut, white chocolate chips... so many options.

--------------------

http://www.joyofbaking.com/printpages/browniesprint.html

Brownies

 1 1/2 pounds (680 grams) semisweet or bittersweet    chocolate,  chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) (226 grams) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 large eggs
2 cups (400 grams) granulated white sugar
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (210 grams) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt


Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (177 degrees C) and place rack in center of 
oven.  Butter (or spray with a nonstick cooking spray) a 9 x 13 inch (23 x 
33 cm) pan.

Melt the chocolate and butter in the top half of a double boiler over 
simmering water.  Set aside.  (Can also use a stainless steel bowl over a 
saucepan with simmering water.)

Meanwhile, in a large bowl whisk (can use a hand mixer) together the eggs 
and sugar.  Fold in the melted chocolate mixture and vanilla extract.

Whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt and then fold into the 
chocolate and sugar mixture until well combined.

Pour into the prepared pan and bake for about 45 - 55 minutes, or until a 
toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.  Remove from oven and 
let cool on a wire rack.  Serve at room temperature or chilled.  Store 
leftovers in the refrigerator.  These freeze very well.

Makes 16 large brownies. 
