(fava beans)

treat gently when young and fresh < Ornellaia > 04/19 21:42:22

You have to peel them twice:

1) First remove the thick outer pod

2) Place them in boiling water for just under 1 minute to soften the skin 
of the bean and then place is pleanty of ice water so that they don't 
cook. At this point, you can pinch one end off and press the bright green 
bean out.

Once you have your doubly peeled beans, I recommend either of two recipes:

1) Saute them quicly in olive oil, add salt and pepper to taste, a bit of 
mint, and shaving of parmesan.

2) Place the beans in the food processor with 1/4 clove of garlic, salt, 
pepper and olive oil and process until you have a puree. Serve with 
crostini and a shaving of parmesan.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=14285654

You need to to a double peel < Ornellaia > 03/31 16:38:35

well you could eat the second peel but it is touch and puckering. First 
take the beans out of the pod, then place in boiling water for about 30 
seconds, drain them, and place in a bowl with water and ice. Once they are 
cool, pinch the top off the outer skin and squeeze the bottom to release a 
bright green bean. It is time consuming and the yield is low, but so worth 
it. Once you have your peeled blanched beans, you can sautee them in olive 
oil with some mint or place them in the food processor with some olive 
oil, touch of garlic, mint and salt. Process until you have a paste and 
serve with toasted baguette slices and shavings of parmesan. They are also 
excellent combined with other spring produce such as asparagus and peas to 
extend them, e.g. a pasta with sauteed asparagus, fava beans, peas, and 
mint.

for an appetizer... < AnchoHungry > 03/31 16:33:28

they are great boiled, drained and processed with evoo, mint, lemon juice, 
s+p to taste, spread on crostini and shave some parmesean on top and an 
extra grind of pepper, simple but yum.

On subject: I am sure they would be good in your saute

Time consuming but easy < Ornellaia > 04/25 11:35:10
Shuck and peel 3 lbs of favas in the pod. Remove beans from the pod first. 
Place beans in boiling water for 20-30 seconds [any more and your beans 
will be pasty and bitter]. Immediately place beans in bowl of ice water to 
stop cooking. Peel the grey outer skin by pinching off a piece of the top 
and squeezing the bottom. You will get about 1 cup of peeled beens. Place 
beens in food processor with 1/2 clove of garlic. [Less garlic is better 
in this recipe since the flavor of the beans are very delicate.] Add some 
salt to taste. Add about 4 large mint leaves. Pulse a few times until you 
get an unveven puree. Add some top quality extra virgin olive oil, about 3 
tbs, and some black pepper. Slice some crusty bread and toast. Rub the 
edges of the toasted bread with a garlic clove. Spread the puree on top. 
Add some parmesan shavings. Serve. 

kThis gets my vote (Fava Bean Sauce) < sauceyyyy > 08/21 16:36:25

Pasta with Fresh Fava Bean Sauce


This is a version of a sauce I learned while visiting my mother's hometown 
in Calabria. When I asked what was in it, the reply was a shrug. No one 
understood why I was curious about a sauce of fava beans, pasta water, and 
salt.

Recipe from Tra Vigne Cookbook






(Serves 4)
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
1-1/2 teaspoons minced garlic
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh oregano
1-1/2 cups Chicken Stock or canned low-salt chicken broth
Gray salt and freshly ground pepper
2 cups cooked, peeled fava beans
3/4 pound dried fettuccine
4 oz piece pecorino cheese or Parmesan cheese



Heat the olive oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat until hot. 
Add the garlic and sauti briefly until light brown. Stir in the oregano, 
then add 1 cup of the stock. Bring to a boil, season with salt and pepper, 
and add 1-1/2 cups of the fava beans. Simmer to blend the flavors, about 3 
minutes.
Scrape into a blender container and puree with the remaining 1/2 cup stock 
until smooth. Return the sauce to the pan and add the remaining 1/2 cup 
favas. Simmer gently and taste for seasoning. Add salt and especially 
pepper.

Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a boil and add salt. Add the 
pasta and cook until al dente, about 12 minutes. Drain, reserving about 
1/2 cup of the pasta cooking water. Pour the pasta into a warm serving 
bowl and add the sauce. Toss well and thin with the pasta water, if 
necessary, until the sauce is glossy and not sticky. Serve immediately and 
grate the cheese over the top at the table.

Now's the time to use our extra virgin olive oil, or any other high 
quality olive oil to drizzle over the pasta.

I like serving pasta in a warm ceramic bowl. Just before serving, ladle a 
little hot pasta water into the bowl for a couple minutes to warm it up. 
Drain the water before filling the bowl with the pasta. 
