panna cotta < Ornellaia > 12/12 18:37:51

you will need in addition to your cream:

2 cups of yogurt
2 vanilla beans
1/2 cup of sugar
2 envelopes of gelatin

Take one pint of heavy cream and the sugar and the split vanilla beans and 
bring it to simmer. Simmer it for 20 minutes. Take your gelatin and bloom 
it in 1/4 cup of cold water. Combine the other pint of cream with the 
yogurt in a large bowl. Take the pot of cream with vanilla and add the 
gelatin to it off the heat. Mix well. Stain the vanilla bean out and 
combine the cooked cream with the cream yogurt mixture. Pour into ramekins 
and cover with plastic wrap. Place in fridge for at least 6 hours.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=10951850

------------------------

It is not from a magazine, but my recipe is < Ornellaia > 07/01 11:32:49

really good and fools' proof

Makes 6 individual servings
2 cups of heavy cream
1 cup of whole milk yogurt
1/2 cup of sugar
1 tbs of gelatin
1 vanilla bean or 2 tsp of vanilla essence

Scald 1 cup of heavy cream with the vanilla bean (split open and seeds 
scraped into the cream) and the sugar. Let the cream slowly come to a 
simmer on medium low heat. When simmering add the gelatin and icorporate 
gelatin well into the cream making sure it is disolved. Remove from heat.

In a mixing bowl, combine the other 1 cup of heavy cream with the 1 cup of 
yogurt. Strain the simmered cream to remove the vanilla bean and add to 
the yogurt cream mixture. Combine all ingredients well and fill six 
individual ramekins with the mixture. Place in refrigerator until it firms 
up (about 4 hours).

For the strawberries, I usually slice about 3 cups worth and add 1/4 cup 
of sugar and about 1 tbs of really good balsamic. If you want to do 
champagne, I would add about 1 cup of champagne and a little more than 1/4 
cup of sugar and let them sit for about 1/4 hour to macerate so the 
flavors come together.

To serve, you just run a pairing knife on the side of the ramekin to losen 
the pana cotta from the mold and place on a small plate. Then spoon over 
some strawberries with sauce.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=1807369

--------------------------------------------------------


DELFINA'S BUTTERMILK PANNA COTTA

Craig Stoll's version of this Italian dessert is among the most popular 
dishes at his Mission District restaurant, Delfina. It is very good served 
with cut-up and lightly sweetened strawberries, or other seasonal fruit. 
You will need a dozen 4-ounce Styrofoam cups to make this dessert.

INGREDIENTS

Caramel

1 1/4 cups sugar

Juice of 1/2 lemon

1/4 cup water

Custard

1 envelope gelatin (about 1 tablespoon)

3 cups whipping cream

11 ounces sugar (1 1/4 cups + 2 tablespoons)

1 cup buttermilk

Juice of 2 lemons, or to taste

INSTRUCTIONS The caramel: Combine the sugar and lemon juice in a small, 
heavy-bottomed pot. Add just enough water to moisten to a sandy texture. 
Brush any residual sugar off the sides of the pot with a pastry brush 
dipped in water. Cook over medium- high heat until the sugar caramelizes. 
Remove from heat and, standing at arm's length from the pot, add the 1/4 
cup water. Be careful: The mixture will bubble and sputter. When the 
sputtering stops, pour the caramel into 11 or 12 four-ounce Styrofoam 
cups. Carefully tilt the cups to coat with caramel.

The custard: Soak the gelatin granules in 4 tablespoons cold water for 15 
minutes, until softened.

Pour the cream into a saucepan and whisk in the sugar. Heat to just below 
a boil. Add the softened gelatin and stir until it dissolves completely. 
Stir in the buttermilk and lemon juice. Remove from heat and let cool.

Pour the custard into the caramelized molds. Refrigerate overnight, until 
the gelatin sets and the custards are stiff enough to unmold.

To unmold: Slip a small sharp paring knife around the inside of the molds 
to loosen the custards. Invert the cup over a serving plate and puncture 
the bottom (now the top) with the tip of the knife. Gently slide the panna 
cotta out of the cup.

Garnish with seasonal fruit.

Serves 11 or 12

PER SERVING: 400 calories, 2 g protein, 50 g carbohydrate, 22 g fat (14 g saturated), 82 mg cholesterol, 46 mg sodium, 0 fiber. 
