
less.

1 cup dried split peas 1/2 teaspoon dried basil, crumbled 1 bay leaf 2 cups water 2 cups
chicken broth 2 cups chopped onion 1/2 teaspoon cuminseed 3 tablespoons olive oil

In a large heavy saucepan simmer peas, basil, and bay leaf in water and broth, covered
partially, until peas are tender, about 35 minutes, and discard bay leaf.

While peas are cooking, in a heavy skillet sauté onion and cuminseed in oil over
moderately high heat, stirring, until golden brown.

In a blender puree soup in batches until just smooth and transfer to a bowl. Stir in
onion mixture and salt and pepper to taste.

Makes about 4 cups.

-------------------------------------------

PUMPKIN BREAD PUDDING WITH CARAMEL SAUCE

"I have never been a bread-pudding fan," writes Marie Hernandez of Chicago. "But after
trying the pumpkin bread pudding at Wildfire restaurant in Oak Brook, Illinois, I think
I've changed my mind. Had I know that this dessert could be so good, I would have started
eating it long ago."

Do as the restaurant does, and serve this with sweetened whipped cream.

Bread pudding 2 cups half and half 1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin 1 cup (packed) plus 2
tablespoons dark brown sugar 2 large eggs 1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice 1 1/2
teaspoons ground cinnamon 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 10 cups 1/2-inch cubes egg
bread (about 10-ounces) 1/2 cup golden raisins

Caramel sauce 1 1/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar 1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter 1/2
cup whipping cream

Powdered sugar

For bread pudding: Preheat oven to 350°F. Whisk half and half, pumpkin, dark brown sugar,
eggs, pumpkin pie spice, cinnamon and vanilla extract in large bowl to blend. Fold in
bread cubes. Stir in golden raisins. Transfer mixture to 11x7-inch glass baking dish. Let
stand 15 minutes. Bake pumpkin bread pudding until tester inserted into center comes out
clean, about 40 minutes.

Meanwhile, prepare caramel sauce: Whisk brown sugar and butter in heavy medium saucepan
over medium heat until butter melts. Whisk in cream and stir until sugar dissolves and
sauce is smooth, about 3 minutes.

Sift powdered sugar over bread pudding. Serve warm with caramel sauce.

Makes 6 servings.

----------------------------------------------

1 cup (1 medium-size) sweet potato 1/2 cup butter, melted 1/4 cup firmly packed brown
sugar 2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2
teaspoon baking soda 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2/3 cup buttermilk

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Pierce sweet potato in several places. Bake potato until
very tender, approximately 1 hour. Remove from oven. Cut potato in half and cool
slightly. Scoop flesh from potato into small bowl and cool completely.

Place 1 cup sweet potato flesh into large bowl. Add butter and brown sugar; beat until
smooth. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, baking soda, and cinnameon into a medium bowl.
Mix dry ingredients into sweet potato alternately with buttermilk in three (3) additions,
beginning and ending with dry ingredients.

Transfer dough to a generously floured surface. Roll to 3/4-inch thickness. Using a 2-
inch round cookie cutter, cut out biscuits; place on an ungreased baking sheet. Gather
scraps into ball; reroll and cut.

Bake biscuits until golden and puffed, approximately 20 to 25 minutes. Transfr baking
sheet to rack and cool slightly. Serve biscuits warm or at room temperature.

Makes 10 to 12 biscuits.

-------------------------------------------------

2      cups unbleached flour 1       tablespoon baking powder 1/2    teaspoon salt 1/4
cup shortening 1       tablespoon grated orange peel 1       tablespoon grated lemon peel
3/4   cup sweet potatoes, baked until tender, peeled and mashed 1/4   cup honey 1/2   cup
(approximately) milk

In a large bowl, mix flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening until mixture
resembles size of small peas.  Add orange and lemon peels, sweet potatoes and honey; mix
well. Add enough milk to make soft, but not sticky, dough. Turn out onto floured board
and knead 3 to 4 times. Pat to 1-inch thickness and cut out 2-1/4-inch rounds. Place on
ungreased cookie sheet and bake at 400 °F 15 to 18 minutes or until lightly browned.

----------------------------------------------------

 Maggie's Sweet Potato Biscuits

Ingredients: 3 large or 4 small sweet potatoes (about 2 pounds) 1 cup butter or margarine
5 cups of flour 1/2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt

Preparation:

Peel, slice, and boil potatoes until very tender and falling apart (30 to 40 minutes).
While still warm, drain, add butter or margarine, and beat with mixer.  Beat thoroughly
until smooth.  Mix in, by hand, the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt.

The dough will be much moister than regular biscuit dough; add more flour if it seems too
sticky to handle.  Mix only until blended, as dough will get tough if overworked.

Pat dough out 1 inch thick on floured surface.  Cut into 2 inch rounds and place on
ungreased baking sheet.

Bake at 450 degrees F for 20 minutes until just lightly browned. Makes 1 1/2 dozen.

------------------------------------------------------

Buttermilk Sweet Potato Biscuits

Makes about 16

Buttermilk Biscuits

We sometimes adapt this biscuit dough to make a crust for a potpie or a cobbler, but
there's no beating it as a plain old biscuit. Light and crusty, with a glowing orange
interior, it cries out for a pat of soft butter that will melt and dribble down your
chin.

2 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking soda 1 teaspoon baking powder Coarse salt 6
tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, well chilled 1 cup cold baked sweet potato,
peeled 1/2-1 cup buttermilk, as needed

Heat the oven to 400 degrees

Stir the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoon salt with a fork in a mixing
bowl. Drop in the butter and toss it in the flour, then cut it into pieces. Work the
butter into the flour until it resembles oatmeal.

Whip the sweet potato with a fork until it's very smooth, then add it to the bowl. Work
it in lightly but thoroughly with your fingers. Add 1/2 cup of the buttermilk and stir.
Add just enough additional buttermilk to make a smooth and only slightly sticky dough.

Dump the dough onto a floured surfacec and knead it two or three times. Flatten it out to
1/2 inch thick—you can dirty a rolling pin for this if you want, but your hands will do
the job just fine—and cut out biscuits with a 2-1/2-inch cutter. Put the biscuits on a
baking sheet. Gather the scraps together, pat it down, and cut out more biscuits.

Brush the biscuits with buttermilk and bake for about 15 minutes, until well risen and
appealingly browned. Serve hot.

------------------------------------------------------

 1 large can of san marzano tomatoes. Crush them well. 3 cloves of garlic whole but
slightly crushed to release flavor 10 basil leaves 5 tbs of olive oil 1/2 tsp of red
pepper flakes (optional) salt to taste.

Heat up pan, add olive oil, garlic and red pepper flakes. Add crushed tomatoesa and
season with salt and pepper. Add 3 basil leaves whole. Simmer for 10 minutes. Remove
basil and garlic. Shred some basil and are reserve to use last minute. The raviolis will
cook in 3 minutes or so. Cook the ravioli in the tomato sauce for 1 minute or so for
better results. Also drizzle some good quality extra virgin olive oil right before
serving.

poached pears in wine < Ornellaia > 12/19 14:51:24

6 bosc pears peeled, but leave the stem. 1 bottle of inexpensive red wine 2 cinnamon
sticks 5 whole cloves 1 vanilla bean 1/2 cup of sugar or more to taste.

In a pot large enough to hold the pears, heat up the wine to a simmer and add the sugar.
Stirr until disolved. Add the spices and simmer for 20 minutes. Add the pears and cover
pot. Simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover and take pears off heat. Let them cool in the
pot. Serve either at room temp or chilled. Goes great with a scoop of cinnamon ice cream.

--------

My panzanella < romatomato-nli > 06/25 11:35:07

I'm sure O has a great recipe too.

Start with day old bread (please not sourdough!) or even 2-3 day old bread, the crustier
the better. Cube it , put it in a bowl, and drizzle with very fruity evoo. Cut up an
equal amount of really great tomatoes (seeded) and place over the bread. Sprinkle the
tomatoes with sea salt and let sit for maybe an hour to let all the juices from the
tomatoes soak into the bread. Then mix, add more evoo if needed (I personally use a lot
of evoo, but it depends on you). Then I add a big handful of torn or "chiffonaded" basil
leaves, some minced garlic, and some very thinly sliced sweet, red onion. Finally, I take
1-2 dried red chilis and tear them up into the panzanella. Let sit for another 30 minutes
to an hour. Do not refrigerate...or do, but let it come to room temp before serving.

I've seen recipes that add cucumber and other herbs, but I like the simplicity of a plain
bread salad. Ah, sometimes I do sprinkle some balsamic vinegar over the tomatoes after
they are salted, but most often I prefer panzanella without any acid.

-----------

GRATIN OF BUTTERNUT SQUASH


Butternut is one of my favorite squashes. We often bake a small butternut squash (about 1 pound) at home; we split it lengthwise, seed it, score the flesh with a knife, sprinkle on a little salt, and bake, skin side down, for 1 hour in a 400-degree oven. Excellent in soup and pureed, butternut squash is always welcome at our table. This gratin is quite rich and should be reserved for special occasions, like Thanksgiving.

1 large butternut squash (3 1/4 pounds), peeled and seeded (2 1/2 pounds)
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
3 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese

Cut off and discard the stem of the squash, then cut the squash into two pieces by cutting through it horizontally at the bottom of the neck. This will make it easier to peel.

Peel the cylindrical neck lengthwise, removing enough skin so that the orange flesh underneath is revealed. (Under the outer skin there is a layer of green, which should be removed.) Peel the round part of the squash by cutting around it in a spiral fashion with a sharp knife; it is easier to peel a round object in this manner.

Cut the rounded part in half lengthwise, and, using a spoon, scoop out the seeds. Then cut the squash into 1/8-to-1/4-inch slices, either with a knife or in a food processor fitted with the slicing blade.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Place the squash slices in a large saucepan, cover them with water, and bring to a boil. Boil over high heat for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, then drain in a colander. The pieces will break a little in cooking. Arrange pieces in a gratin dish, and sprinkle with the salt and pepper. Pour on the cream, and stir gently with a fork to distribute the additions properly. Cover with the cheese, and bake for about 30 minutes.

At serving time, brown the top of the gratin by heating it under a hot broiler for 4 to 5 minutes. Serve immediately.

Makes 6 servings.
 
Jacques Pépin Celebrates
Jacques Pépin
Knopf


   
   
 
Sarah ( sarahgael@hotmail.com ) from SF on 09/02/03  
I am currently making this and I wanted to comment that it CAN be peeled (as several people have asserted), but letting it bake is so much easier, and then you don't lose all the vitamins in the boiling water. Better for you, and easier too! Enjoy!

A Cook from Denver, CO on 08/29/03  
Made this to replace that sickly marshmellow/sweet potato casserole last Thanksgiving (and several times since then). And everyone was so pleased! I really don't see what the problem with peeling the squash is. I cut it at the neck, use a sharp, sturdy kitchen knife, and am done in a few minutes. Alternately, you could cut in in slices, then lay slices flat and cut the peel off each one...anyway, I've quit measuring the ingredients and just wing it--always turns out great. You can cook the squash less for a firmer texture, and a long time for a creamy casserole flavor. Be sure to let the cheese get a little crispy on top--that's my favorite part!

A Cook from San Diego on 12/24/02  
This was awesome!!! A great substitute for sweet potatoes at a holiday meal with more subtle flavor and smoother texture. AND...so incredibly quick and easy to prepare. I would definitely recommend using the technique suggested by another reviewer to bake the squash whole in a 350 oven for about 20-30 minutes. Remove and cool. Then squash is very easy to peel and prepare for dish. I did not boil the squash after this step and the result was awesome. This dish is a keeper.

A Cook from Vancouver, BC on 12/02/02  
Yummy! a nice alternative to potato gratin. Its sweet and a little creamy at the same time. I would recommend slightly cooking the squash in the microwave on high for around 7 minutes (this cuts your cooking time!), and reducing the cream. It makes a great side dish to any winter holiday meal.

A Cook from San Francisco, CA on 12/01/02  
Great dish! Everyone loved it at our dinner party. I made squash 2 different ways: 1) Gratin using this recipe and 2) BUTTERNUT SQUASH AND CARROT PUREE WITH MAPLE SYRUP (other recipe on this site) Everyone preferred squash gratin style over the Puree style! Enjoy!

---------------------

MACARONI AND CHEESE


It is so easy and inexpensive to make this favorite dish from scratch.

1/2 pound macaroni, cooked
2 cups Cheese Sauce
1/2 cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese
1/2 cup freshly made buttered bread crumbs

Preheat the oven to 375° F. Butter a 1 1/2-quart casserole. Put the cooked macaroni into the casserole, pour the cheese sauce over it, and mix gently with a fork. Sprinkle the grated cheese evenly over the top and spread the crumbs over the cheese. Bake, uncovered, until the top is golden and the sauce is bubbling, about 30 minutes.

Serves 4.




WHITE SAUCE OR BECHAMEL SAUCE


This used to be one of the first lessons in home economics classes; invariably white and pasty, it coated many a bland dish. When well made, however, it has a proper place in homey, creamed dishes, often making leftovers stretch or giving cooked foods new life. And it is important as a base for soufflés. The French term for this medium-thick white sauce is béchamel. The foolproof way to attain a perfectly smooth sauce is to have the milk hot when added to the butter and flour. It uses an extra pot, but as you become more proficient, this cautionary measure may not be necessary.

Watch us make béchamel in a streaming video demonstration.

2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
1 1/4 cups milk, heated
Salt
Freshly ground pepper

Melt the butter in a heavy-bottomed saucepan. Stir in the flour and cook, stirring constantly, until the paste cooks and bubbles a bit, but don't let it brown — about 2 minutes. Add the hot milk, continuing to stir as the sauce thickens. Bring it to a boil. Add salt and pepper to taste, lower the heat, and cook, stirring for 2 to 3 minutes more. Remove from the heat. To cool this sauce for later use, cover it with wax paper or pour a film of milk over it to prevent a skin from forming.

Cheese Sauce. Stir in 1/2 cup grated Cheddar cheese during the last 2 minutes of cooking, along with a pinch of cayenne pepper.

How hot should the milk be? Warm the milk on low heat just until little bubbles begin to form at the edges. Then remove from heat.

Makes about 1 cup.

A Cook from Washington, DC on 04/16/03  
This is a great basic recipe. Try adding a pinch of nutmeg. Yum. Also, I use white pepper instead of black; its a little more subtle. I will try suggestions of adding some flavors to the milk. Great idea.

A Cook from SpringValley,MN on 04/10/03  
This sauce is MUCH better than the sauce I was making before I found this recipe! When I heated the milk I add a chicken bulion cube and poured it over fried chicken and mashed potatoes. Now that's down home cooking!!

A Cook from Philadelphia, PA on 03/29/03  
So good and very easy! Added white wine to the butter and flour paste. Certainly needs alot of seasoning...I will use this all the time!

A Cook from Toronto, Ontario on 01/03/03  
Delicious. The Joy of Cooking also suggests adding a quarter of a peeled onion, a few cloves and a bay leaf to the milk while it's warming (take them out before adding to flour/butter mixture). This adds some really nice flavours. Also, I warmed the milk in the microwave, right in my glass measuring cup - avoids using a second pot - and it worked just fine.


------

rich chocolate pudding from scratch < ricepaddy > 10/20 18:18:06

I found this recipe in Prevention magazine, but it's SO good--and it uses soy milk, 
which is good for me, because a) there's that bit of extra protein, and b) cow milk, 
although I love it, gives me indigestion (I drink it anyways and suffer, but 
substitute soy when I can).

It's really good, really decadent, really chocolatey. I'm a chocoholic too!
(Note: The recipe originally called for 2 oz bittersweet chocolate, but I made 
it with closer to 3 oz semisweet, so that's what I put here--haven't tried it 
any other way).

Ok: Rich Chocolate Pudding

1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 c soy milk (I used Edensoy original)
approx 3 oz semisweet chocolate chips

1. In a large saucepan, whisk together the sugar, cocoa, cornstarch, and salt. Gradually whisk in the 
soy milk. Stir in the chocolate.

2. Cook over medium heat, whisking constantly, until the mixture thickens and boils. Boil for 1 minute.

3. Spoon the mixture into six 6-oz pudding cups. Place plastic wrap over the surface of the warm 
pudding to prevent a skin from forming. Refrigerate for 2 hours, or until set.
So good with whipped cream; the magazine also suggests raspberries and mint sprigs as a garnish.
And it's Prevention magazine, so if you're interested, I'll puts the nutrition facts per serving. 
But it doesn't at all taste like it's good for you--it's so rich, almost like a flourless 
chocolate cake consistency. Make sure you stir it with a whisk the whole time it's cooking, 
cuz nobody likes biting into a lump of cornstarch.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=9713282


------------------------

Sweet Potato Minestrone
This soup is full of healthy antioxidants. A very hearty
   soup for a cold winter night! I serve it with hot garlic
   bread. If you are lucky enough to have leftovers, it's great
   the next day! Prep Time: approx. 30 Minutes. Cook Time:
   approx. 30 Minutes. Ready in: approx. 1 Hour . Makes 6
   servings.
   Printed from Allrecipes, Submitted by Shelley
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 large onion, chopped
2 large stalks celery, chopped
2 1/2 teaspoons Italian seasoning
salt and pepper to taste
1 (28 ounce) can
   Italian-style diced tomatoes
	5 cups vegetable broth
2 large sweet potatoes,
   peeled and diced
2 large carrots, sliced thin
6 ounces green beans, cut
   into 1 inch pieces
5 cloves garlic, minced

Directions
1 Heat oil in a soup pot over medium-high heat. Saute
   onion, celery, Italian seasoning, salt and pepper until
   tender, about 5 minutes. Stir in tomatoes, with the juice,
   broth, sweet potatoes, carrots, green beans and garlic.
   Bring to a boil; reduce heat to low and simmer, stirring
   occasionally, until vegetables are tender, about 30 minutes.


---------------------------

Carrot Ginger Soup


In a medium saucepan saute a chopped onion in a dab of butter or oil.
Add a minced garlic clove and some grated fresh ginger, about 1 Tbsp.,
and 3/4 teaspoon of ground cumin. A pinch of ground coriander is good too.
Give a stir, then add 4 cups of chicken stock.
Cut 3 large carrots and 1 medium potato into small chunks and add to pot.
Simmer until the vegetables are tender, about 15 minutes.
Puree in a blender, then return to the pot.
Add salt and pepper to taste.
Squeeze in the juice of an orange.

Serve in bowls with a spoonful of plain yogurt or sour cream.

http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=10765947

----------------------------------

                      *  Exported from  MasterCook  *
 
                      VANISHING OATMEAL RAISIN COOKIES
 
 Recipe By     : 
 Serving Size  : 48   Preparation Time :0:00
 Categories    : Cookies
 

   Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
 --------  ------------  --------------------------------
    1      c             Margarine/butter, softened
    1      c             Firmly packed brown sugar
      1/2  c             Granulated sugar
    2                    Eggs
    1      ts            vanilla
    1 1/2  c             all-purpose flour
    1      ts            baking soda
    1      ts            ground cinnamon
      1/2  ts            Salt (optional)
    3      c             QUAKER Oats uncooked (quick or old fashioned)
    1      c             raisins

 
   Heat oven to 350 F.  Beat together margarine and sugars until creamy.  Add
   eggs and vanilla; beat well.  Add combined flour; baking soda, cinnamon
   and salt; mix well.  Stir in oats and raisins; mix well.  Drop by rounded
   tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheet.  Bake 10 to 12 minutes or
   until light golden brown.  Cool 1 minute on cookie sheet; remove to wire
   rack.  Cool completely.  Store tightly covered.
   
   Nutrition Information (1 cookie):
   * Calories 100
   * Fat 4g
   * Sodium 75mg
   * Dietary Fiber 1g
   
   VARIATIONS
   ÿÿÿ  o  Stir in 1 cup chopped nuts
   o  Substitute 1 cup semisweet chocolate pieces or candy coated
       chocolate pieces for raisins; omit cinnamon
   o  Substitute 1 cup diced mixed fruit for raisins
   
   Ice Cream Sandwich Cookies: Spread softened ice cream on bottom side of
   one cookie; top with second cookie.  Wrap securely; freeze.
   
   Source: Quaker Oats Favorite Cookies
   Copyright 1994, The Quaker Oats Company
   Reprinted with permission from The Quaker Oats Company
   Electronic format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

-----------------

Ritz Carlton Oatmeal Cookies < FabulousBakerBoy_nli > 11/02 11:35:33

most awesome. but you're gonna have to do the math to reduce the recipe. this a BIG batch:

4 pounds butter
3 pounds 8 ounces granulated sugar
3 pounds brown sugar
13 ounces honey
10 whole eggs
1 ounce vanilla extract
4 pounds 12 ounces cake flour
1 ounce salt
1 1/3 ounces baking powder
1 3/4 ounces baking soda
3 pounds dark raisins
3 pounds gold raisins
3 pounds 12 ounces oatmeal

1. Sift dry ingredients together.

2. Cream butter and sugars.

3. Add honey.

4. Add eggs.

5. Add vanilla.

6. Add sifted dry ingredients.

7. Fold in raisins and oatmeal.

8. Bake 350 degrees approximately 10-12 minutes.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=10012199

----------------------------------

Saag:

"from the Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking by Yamuna Devi

1-2 hot green chiles (cut into pieces)

1/2 inch fresh ginger root, sliced
1/2 tbspn. ground coriander

" teaspn. tumeric

" teaspn. cumin

6 tbspns. ghee or clarified butter

2 lbs. fresh spinach, washed and chopped

1/2 teaspn garam masala

1/2 teaspn salt

3 tbsns cream or cream cheese

method:

(I've shortened, my own desciptions here)

puree chiles and ginger in a processor, add first 3 spices and pulse into mix, should be a well blended paste. add 4 tsp h2o

heat ghee in a large pan or pot, carefully add wet spice mix to hot oil then pack in spinach leaves. Reduce heat and allow to cook for 5 minutes, turn leaves over so everything cooks evenly and cook for another 5 minutes. Add marsala, salt and cream, (and panir at this time if you are using it) & cook for another 5 minutes, stir well before serving.

Note: last time I made this I tweaked it a little by adding 1 bunch of cilantro, and instead of chopping I lazily thru spinach & cilantro into a proccessor. It was very smooth, esp. after the addition of the cream (i used heavy). Also added a little more ginger and chiles than suggested as well as garlic into the paste.

Please let me know if you try this how it works out, next time I'm going to try w/ cream cheese."
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=6300410

-------

The Best Banana Bread
Greasing and flouring only the bottom of a regular loaf pan causes the bread to cling to the sides and rise higher. If using a nonstick loaf pan, on which the sides are very slick, grease and flour sides as well as the bottom.

Makes one 9-inch loaf


2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups toasted walnuts, chopped coarse (about 1 cup)
3 very ripe, soft, darkly speckled large bananas, mashed well (about 1 1/2 cups)
1/4 cup plain yogurt
2 large eggs, beaten lightly
6 tablespoons butter, melted and cooled
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease bottom only of regular loaf pan, or grease and flour bottom and sides of nonstick 9-by-5-by-3-inch loaf pan; set aside. Combine first five ingredients together in large bowl; set aside.

2. Mix mashed bananas, yogurt, eggs, butter, and vanilla with wooden spoon in medium bowl. Lightly fold banana mixture into dry ingredients with rubber spatula until just combined and batter looks thick and chunky. Scrape batter into prepared loaf pan; bake until loaf is golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan for 5 minutes, then transfer to wire rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=10372202

-----

BUTTERNUT SOUP WITH CUMIN 
 
For this soup, cook your favorite winter squash.
3 tablespoons olive oil
3 medium onions, peeled and sliced (3 cups)
3 pounds butternut squash, peeled and cut into 2-inch cubes (8 cups) 
2 teaspoons salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon ground cumin
3 sprigs of fresh thyme
3 cups chicken broth, vegetable broth, or a commercial broth or bouillon cubes
Croutons
In a 6-quart heavy-bottomed soup pot, heat the oil over medium heat and stir in the onions. Cover, reduce the heat, and braise for 15 minutes, checking that the onions don't burn.
Add the squash to the onions. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, cumin, and thyme; cover the pot. Braise for another 15 minutes, checking once in a while that the vegetables do not burn.
Add the broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce the heat, and simmer for 30 minutes or until the squash is tender.
Purée the soup in a blender or food processor in batches or use an immersion blender. Reheat the soup; taste for salt, and add more cumin to taste. Serve boiling hot with croutons.

-------------
 Rec: Double-Ginger Cookies
Double-Ginger Cookies

1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup whole wheat flour
3/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 1/4 cups sugar, divided
1/2 cup applesauce
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
Cooking spray

Lightly spoon flours into dry measuring
cups, and level with a knife. Combine flours
and next 5 ingredients (flours through
ground ginger); stir well with a whisk. Make
a well in center of mixture. Combine 1 cup
sugar, applesauce, and next 4 ingredients
(applesauce through vanilla). Add to flour
mixture, stirring just until moist; cover
and chill dough at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350°.

Lightly coat hands with flour. Shape dough
into 24 balls (about 2 tablespoons each;
dough will be sticky). Roll balls in 1/4 cup
sugar. Place balls 2 inches apart on baking
sheets coated with cooking spray. Bake at
350° for 15 minutes or until lightly
browned. Cool 1 minute on pan. Remove from
pan; cool completely on wire racks.

Note: These freeze well. Place cooled
cookies in a heavy-duty zip-top plastic bag;
store in freezer for up to 1 month. Thaw at
room temperature.

Yield: 2 dozen (serving size: 1 cookie)

CALORIES 123 (18% from fat); FAT 2.5g
(satfat 0.5g, monofat 0.7g, polyfat 1.2g);
PROTEIN 1.5g; CARBOHYDRATE 24.2g; FIBER
0.9g; CHOLESTEROL 0.0mg; IRON 1.4mg; SODIUM
98mg; CALCIUM 24mg;

Cooking Light, MAY 2001

--

Carrot Cake

 I've got a great T&T carrot cake. Very simple and it's my favorite too. It's from Molly
 O'Neill's NY Cookbook, and is from of the Carrot Top Bakery.

This makes one 11x9 cake pan, but I've baked it as 9-inch layers too.

1 cup vegetable oil
2 cups sugar
3 cups freshly grated carrots
1 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped
2 cups AP flour
1 T. baking powder
1 t. cinnamon
1 t. nutmeg
1/2 t. salt
4 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350. Grease pan.

In a large bowl, combine all ingredients except eggs. Add eggs and mix
well. Pour into prepared pan and bake 45 minutes, or until cake springs
back when lightly touched. Cool in the pan on a wire rack.

You can frost with cream cheese frosting if you like, or just do a simple
glaze.

1 pkg cream cheese 6 tbsp unsalted butter 2 c powdered sugar 1 tsp vanilla
extract

---

TV Dinners: Thai Yellow Pumpkin and Seafood Curry

14 ounces canned coconut milk
1-2 tablespoons yellow (or red) Thai curry paste
1 1/2 c of fish stock (I use boiling water and concentrated fish bouillon; Cubes would do.)
3 tablespoons of fish sauce
2 tablespoons of sugar
3 lemongrass stalks, each cut into three and bruised with the flat of a knife
3 lime leaves, stalked and cut into strips
1/2 teaspoon of turmeric
2 1/4 pounds of pumpkin (or butternut squash) peeled and cut into large bite-size chunks
18 ounces of salmon fillet, preferably organic, skinned and cut into large bite-size chunks
18 ounces of peeled raw shrimp
Bok choi or any other green vegetables of your choice
Juice of 1/2 lime--use up to a full lime to taste
Cilantro, to serve

Skim the creamy top off the can of coconut milk and put it--over medium heat--into a large saucepan or casserole with the curry paste. Let it sizzle and (using a fork, whisk or wooden spoon) beat milk and paste together until combined. Still beating gently, add the rest of the coconut milk, fish stock, fish sauce, sugar, lemongrass, lime leaves and turmeric. Bring to a boil and then add the pumpkin. Cook on a fast simmer until the pumpkin is tender (about 15 minutes). Different sorts of pumpkins can vary enormously in the time they take to cook; Some squash takes as little as five minutes.

As I mentioned, you can cook the curry up till this part in advance, maybe leaving the pumpkin with a tiny bit of bite to it. (It will soften and cook as the pan cools.) Either way, when you're about five minutes away from wanting to eat, get ready to cook the seafood.

So, to the robustly simmering pan, add the salmon and shrimp. (If you are using frozen shrimp, they'll need to go in before the salmon.) When the salmon and shrimp have cooked, which shouldn't take more than three to four minutes, stir in any green vegetable you're using--sliced, chopped or shredded as suits--and tamp down with a wooden spoon. When the bok choi's wilted, squeeze in the juice of half a lime, stir and taste and add the juice of the remaining half, if you feel it needs it. Take the pan off the heat or decant the curry into a large bowl and sprinkle over the cilantro. The point is that the cilantro goes in just before serving. Serve with more chopped cilantro for people to add to their own bowls as they eat--and some plain Thai or basmati rice.

Serves four to six people.


---------------

Syrian Lentil Soup--the best! < hungrymonkey > 01/25 12:07:16

Syrian Lentil Chard Soup--'Adas bi Haamud
1 1/2 cups of lentils
3 T olive oil
1 large bunch chard, any kind is fine
1 large onion, chopped
1 rib celery
4 cloves garlic
1/2 cup fresh squeezed lemon juice
1 t flour
salt and pepper to taste

Cook the lentils in plenty of water (more than enough to cover) until done, approximately 40 minutes. Add chard leaves which have been chopped and one cup water, reserve the stems. Meanwhile saute the onions, chopped chard stems and celery in the olive oil. Crush garlic with salt and add to onions, continue to saute until vegetables are softened and golden. Add with the vegetables to the chard and lentil mixture. Stir. Add lemon juice mixed with one teaspoon flour to flavor the soup. Let simmer until it thickens. Add salt and pepper to taste.

---------------------------------

Champurrado < on_the_stove_as_we_speak > 10/10 16:00:20

Ingredients:
4 cups milk
1 cup masa harina (tortilla flour)
2 cups water
1 block Mexican Ibarra chocolate (pre-sweetened)
Substitute: 125g bittersweet chocolate, 1 cup brown sugar and 1 cinnamon stick

Method:
Heat the milk and chocolate in a saucepan until the chocolate has dissolved. Mix the masa harina into the water gradually, to avoid lumps, then cook over low heat until the mixture thickens. Add the chocolate milk to the masa mix, simmer for a few more minutes, then serve. 
