Sweet Potato Pie
Recipe courtesy Alton Brown

	
Recipe Summary
Difficulty: Easy
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 1 hour 15 minutes
Yield: 1 (9-inch) pie
User Rating: 4 Stars
	

1 pound 3 ounces sweet potatoes, peeled and cubed
1 1/4 cups plain yogurt
3/4 cup packed, dark brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon of nutmeg
5 egg yolks
Salt
1 (9-inch) deep dish, frozen pie shell
1 cup chopped pecans, toasted
1 tablespoon maple syrup

Special equipment: steamer basket

Put cubed potatoes into steamer basket and place steamer basket into a large pot of simmering water that is no closer than 2 inches from the bottom of basket. Allow to steam for 20 minutes or until the potatoes are fork tender. Mash with potato masher and set aside.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fsalted butter, melted.

Place sweet potatoes in the bowl of a stand mixer and beat with the paddle attachment. Add yogurt, brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, yolks, and salt, to taste, and beat until well combined. Pour this batter into the pie shell and place onto a sheet pan. Sprinkle pecans on top and drizzle with maple syrup.

Bake for 50 to 55 minutes. Remove from oven and cool. Keep refrigerated after cooling.

--------------------------

here's mine (bourbon sweet potato) < kaeruemi > 11/28 20:39:22

1 "deep dish" size unbaked pie crust
3 lbs (raw weight) sweet potatoes/yams
1/2 C melted butter
1 1/2 C sugar
1 C evaporated milk
1/4 C bourbon (i use maker's mark)
2 large eggs, beaten
1 1/2 tsp. ground nutmeg
1 tsp. vanilla extract
1 dash of cinnamon ;)

boil the taters until the skin splits with a fork
peel, then mash them. push through a strainer if you like it smooth. (i like to keep it a little lumpy, so just mash as best i can)
add in the melted butter
incorporate the other ingredients until smooth, add more milk if you like. should be smooth but not runny.
fill crust

bake at 400F approx 50min to an hour
 
http://forums.craigslist.org/?ID=21829163


---------------

pie < pageturner > 11/28 17:51:04

Sweet Potato Pie
1 - 9" unbaked pie crust
2 cups cooked, mashed yams or sweet potatoes (3 medium)
1/2 cup sugar
4 Tbl. unsalted butter, melted
1 tsp. ground cinnamon
1 tsp. ground nutmeg
1/2 tsp. ground ginger
1/4 tsp. salt
3/4 cup whole milk
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
optional: grated orange zest, 1 to 2 teaspoons
Preheat oven to 450 F.
Mix together all the filling ingredients, except the eggs. Blend well, fold in the eggs. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 3500F. and continue to bake until knife inserted in center comes out clean, for 30-35 minutes. Cool on wire rack.
My next door neighbor taught me to make this pie with the grated orange zest. I like baked Garnet yams in the pie.

---------------------

 	

GINGER SWEET-POTATO PIE WITH CINNAMON MERINGUE

For filling
2 pounds sweet potatoes (about 4 medium)
3/4 cup milk
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg a pinch ground cloves
1/4 cup crystallized ginger* (about 2 ounces)
pastry dough
pie weights or raw rice for weighting shell

For meringue
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
5 large egg whites

*available at some supermarkets and specialty foods shops

Make filling:
Preheat oven to 4000F. and line a baking sheet with foil.

Prick sweet potatoes in several places with a fork and on baking sheet bake in middle of oven until very soft, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. When potatoes are cool enough to handle, halve and scoop out enough flesh to measure 2 cups, reserving remainder for another use. In a food processor purie flesh with all remaining filling ingredients except ginger until smooth. Finely chop ginger and stir into filling. Filling may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Bring filling to room temperature before proceeding.

On a lightly floured surface with a floured rolling pin roll out dough into a 14-inch round (about 1/8 inch thick) and fit into a 9-inch (1-quart) glass pie plate. Trim dough, leaving a 1/2-inch overhang, and crimp edge decoratively. With a fork prick bottom and side of shell all over. Chill shell 30 minutes, or until firm.

Preheat oven to 3750F.

Line shell with foil and fill with pie weights or raw rice. Bake shell in middle of oven 25 minutes and carefully remove foil and weights or rice. Bake shell until just pale golden, about 10 minutes more. Pour filling into shell and bake pie in middle of oven 40 minutes.

Make meringue after pie has baked 30 minutes:
In a large metal bowl stir together sugar and cinnamon until combined well. Set bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and add whites, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Remove bowl from heat and with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold stiff, glossy peaks.

Mound meringue in center of hot filling and spread almost to edge of pie. Bake pie in middle of oven until meringue is golden brown, 12 to 15 minutes more. Serve pie warm or at room temperature.

Serves 6 to 8.
Gourmet
November 1998


----------------------------

	
Sweet-Potato Pie
 
Serves 6; Prep time: 30 minutes; Total time: 1 hour 30 minutes

This Southern classic is a great alternative to pumpkin pie. The custard 
filling is creamier and less dense, as well as brighter in color. Top with 
whipped cream.
 
10		 graham crackers (or 1 1/3 cups graham-cracker crumbs)
3		tablespoons sugar
1/2		teaspoon ground ginger
		 Pinch salt
5		tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3		 large eggs
1/2		cup sugar
1 3/4		cups Sweet-Potato Purie, cooled
1/2		cup half-and-half
1		tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2		teaspoons vanilla extract
1		teaspoon salt
1/4		teaspoon ground allspice
 
Preheat oven to 3500, with rack on lowest shelf. Make crust: In a food 
processor, pulse graham crackers, sugar, ginger, and salt until finely 
ground. Add butter; pulse until mixture forms large, moist crumbs. Press 
crust into bottom and up sides of a 9-inch pie plate.
 
Make filling: In a large bowl, whisk together eggs and sugar until 
combined. Add sweet-potato purie, half-and-half, lemon juice, vanilla, 
salt, and allspice; whisk until completely smooth. Pour filling into 
crust; smooth top with a rubber spatula.
 
Place pie on a baking sheet, and bake until filling is set, 40 to 50 
minutes. Transfer pie to a wire rack to cool completely, about 2 hours. 
Pie can be prepared up to a day ahead and refrigerated; serve chilled or 
at room temperature.
 
Note: A press-in graham-cracker crust is simple to make (or buy one 
premade). We added ginger to complement the flavor of the sweet potatoes.



Sweet-Potato Purie
 
Serves 4; Prep time: 10 minutes; Total time: 30 minutes
 
3 large sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into 2-inch chunks
Maple-Butter, Orange-Ginger, or Lime-Cayenne flavoring (optional)
Coarse salt and ground pepper
 
1.  In a large saucepan, cover potatoes with water. Bring to a boil; cook 
until tender when pierced with the tip of a paring knife, 15 to 20 
minutes.
 
2.  Drain potatoes; purie in food processor.
 
3.  Add flavorings, if desired; purie. For Maple-Butter: Add 2 tablespoons 
each melted butter and maple syrup; serve purie with more butter and 
syrup. For Orange-Ginger: Add 1/4 cup each milk and orange juice, 2 
tablespoons melted butter, and 2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger. For 
Lime-Cayenne: Add 1 tablespoon lime juice and a pinch of cayenne; thin 
with a bit of cooking liquid, if needed.
 
4.  Season with salt and pepper.
 
Per serving: 172 calories; 0.5 gram fat; 2.7 grams protein; 39.7 grams 
carbohydrates; 4.9 grams fiber

-------------------------------------

MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.04
 
      Title: SWEET POTATO PIE-Omar the Pieman
 Categories: Pies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Cooked, peeled and
           Mashed sweet potatoes
      1    Egg
      2 tb Melted butter
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Cream
           TO
    3/4 c  Cream
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Vanilla
           Dash salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
           TO
    3/4 c  Sugar
 
  Omar the Pieman has been vending pies since 1964 after he left
  sailing the high seas as a merchant marine. He and his wife,
  Haneefah, decided to provide for their family in a traditional way by
  baking delicious homemade pies and cakes.
  
  In August of 1964 Omar left on his first route through the historic
  streets of New Orleans' French Quarter. As he went along shouting,
  "Pieman, pieman ... delicious, fresh-baked pies," his outgoing and
  friendly character, as well as his pies, became known and enjoyed by
  French Quarter residents.
  
  In his 20 years of business, Omar the Pieman, has been vending in the
  French Quarter, at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, the
  Bastille Celebration and now finally from his own little "home, sweet
  home" kitchen in The Marketplace. Throughout the week from 9:30 to
  5:30 his son, Omar Ibn, delivers trays of velvety smooth pies baked
  daily by his mother, Haneefah (the lady behind the scenes). She was
  once quoted, "I won't let one pie out of my sight unless the crust
  melts in my mouth and the fillings are at their best."
  
  Taken from the sadly out-of-print New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival
  Cookbook, copyright 1984. Mix the potatoes with rotary beater until
  they are smooth. Then add the other ingredients to the potatoes and
  beat for 5 minutes. Pour filling into unbaked 9" pie shell, bake for
  40-45 minutes at 350-325. Can also be served with a favorite topping:
  hot rum sauce, ice cream or whipped cream. Walt MM Omar At The Market
  Place
     1015    Decatur Street New Orleans, LA
 
MMMMM
 


